SCIP & SCIP-TypeScript Blogposts (#5437)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2022/announcing-scip.md

authors:
  - name: Olaf Geirsson
publishDate: 2022-06-08T18:00+02:00
tags: [blog]
slug: announcing-scip
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/announcing-scip.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/announcing-scip.png
published: true
---

![SCIP - a better code indexing format than LSIF](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/announcing-scip.png)

We are excited to announce SCIP, a new indexing format that we are using at Sourcegraph to index programming languages to power code navigation features such as “Go to definition” and “Find references.” We have been using another format called LSIF (Language Server Index Format) for this purpose and in this blog post we want to share the challenges we faced by using LSIF and how that led us to create SCIP. Code navigation is a critical component of the user experience on Sourcegraph and the underlying code navigation data, the main topic of this blog post, is also a building block for a suite of other products under Sourcegraph’s offering as a code intelligence platform.

> This blog post is technical and primarily aimed at authors of developer tools that produce or consume metadata about programming languages. If you’re a Sourcegraph user and want to jump straight to trying out precise code navigation with scip-typescript (for TypeScript and JavaScript) or scip-java (for Java, Scala, and Kotlin), you can read more in their respective announcements, [here](announcing-scip-typescript) and [here](LINK).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blog post is technical and primarily aimed at authors of developer tools that produce or consume metadata about programming languages. If you’re a Sourcegraph user and want to jump straight to trying out precise code navigation with scip-typescript (for TypeScript and JavaScript) or scip-java (for Java, Scala, and Kotlin), you can read more in their respective announcements, [here](announcing-scip-typescript) and [here](https://github.com/sourcegraph/scip-java/releases/tag/v0.8.0).
```

## Compatibility with LSIF

While we are excited to grow our usage of SCIP, we care deeply about compatibility with the existing LSIF ecosystem and will continue to accept LSIF uploads on Sourcegraph. Any tool that consumes LSIF can also consume SCIP by running our [`scip`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/scip) command-line tool that converts a SCIP payload into an LSIF v0.4.3 payload. In fact, we use this compatibility layer ourselves at the moment when uploading SCIP indexes to Sourcegraph because our backend still only processes LSIF.

## Index TypeScript and Java with SCIP today

To pair with this announcement, we are releasing two new SCIP indexers:

- **scip-typescript**: TypeScript and JavaScript indexer built on top of the TypeScript typechecker. Learn more about using this indexer here ([link](announcing-scip-typescript)).

> - **scip-java**: Java, Scala, and Kotlin indexer built on top of compiler plugins for each respective language. Learn more about using this indexer here ([link](LINK)).

Author: Right on! Thank you, Olaf. I accepted the suggested change so we should be good to go!
